# IBM-Project-37320-1660304232
Retail Store Stock Inventory Analytics

In recent times, the employment of analytics in all kinds of business sectors, especially the retail sector has proven to increase success in their daily operations. This project aims to prove that, in addition, will identify what factors are actually contributing to this roaring success in the retail sector. Of course, the use of analytics in the business processes has its own pros and cons, but majority of the organizations feel that the introduction of analytics in their business processes has made things easier for them. Some of the drawbacks of using big data analytics in the retail sector has risen concerns among the customers as well the retailers. Privacy concerns are one of them. Customers feel that their privacy is being snatched away when retailers track their location or store their purchase information for targeting them with personalized advertisements. Although big data analytics help employees to fasten up their work, it also poses a high cost for managing such a huge amount of data. Software needed to sort and analyze this data is very expensive. On the other hand, it requires skilled people to work with them. Data quality decreases because of automation of data gathering, sorting and analyzing them.

The use of analytics decreases the use of man force as it automates all the processes but on the other hand. It helps in product development as analytics can carry out sentiment analysis of a lot of actual and potential customers through social media and find out their preferred types of products, developing their future products accordingly. The use of analytics lets the retailers predict future demands while analyzing their stocks. Micro targeting the customers can be easy when the location of customers can be easily known to the retailers by the use of analytics. Although there are many cons of adapting big data analytics in the business or retail sector, the pros are more and outweighs all the cons. This aims to prove that.

Problem statement : A consumer, residing in San Francisco, wants to buy accessories like a mouse, pendrive, etc. But he/she finds out that availability of accessories from the US Superstore is very less to their locality which makes him/her pay much for the shipping rate to buy the product from the farther areas. This makes him/her worried about the expenses. This happens to several customers in the locality.

The proposed solution architecture and the designed work holds good to provide apt solution to the user’s query. A full detailed report is generated to the user’s observation and inferences are obtained to conclude the query. The analysis is done accurately to yield more trustable results. This work helps retailers as well as users to negotiate much in case of continuous queries being raised by consumers. The stock inventory can be very well managed by the retailers by analyzing the dataset obtained from the database. This greatly helps in increasing the profit and reduce losses in business. Also users can be relieved off from their query either by an approved solution from retailer or via an alternate solution. 
